Complex
Forms of literature
Novel
A novel is a long |2 prose narrative that describes |1 fictional characters and events, usually in the form of a sequential story. The genre has historical roots in antiquity and medieval and early modern romance and in the tradition of the novella. The latter, an Italian word used to describe short stories, supplied the present generic English term in the 18th century. The first significant European novelist is Miguel de Cervantes, author of |2 Don Quixote. While a more precise definition of the genre is difficult, the main elements that critics discuss are: how the narrative, and especially the plot, is constructed, the themes, settings, and |1 characterization, how language is used, and the way that plot, character, and setting relates to reality.
The romance is a related long prose narrative. |2 Walter Scott defined this as "a fictitious narrative in prose or verse; the interest of which turns upon marvellous and uncommon incidents", whereas in the novel "the events are accommodated to the ordinary train of human events and the modern state of society". However, many romances, including the |2 historical romances of Scott, Emily Brontë's Wuthering Heights and Herman Melville's Moby-Dick are also frequently called novels, and Scott describes romance as a "kindred term". Romance, as defined here, should not be confused with the genre fiction love romance or romance novel.

Poem
Poetry is a form of literary art which uses |4 aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language to evoke meanings in addition to, or in place of, the prosaic ostensible meaning.
Poetry has a long history, dating back to the |4 Sumerian Epic of Gilgamesh. Early poems evolved from folk songs such as the Chinese Shijing, or from a need to retell oral epics, as with the |2 Sanskrit Vedas, Zoroastrian Gathas, and the Homeric epics, the Iliad and the Odyssey. Ancient attempts to define poetry, such as Aristotle's Poetics, focused on the uses of |3 speech in rhetoric, drama, song and comedy. Later attempts concentrated on features such as repetition, verse form and |1 rhyme, and emphasized the aesthetics which distinguish poetry from more objectively-informative, prosaic forms of writing. From the mid-20th century, poetry has sometimes been more generally regarded as a fundamental creative act employing language.

Drama
Drama is the specific mode of fiction |3 represented in performance. The term comes from a Greek word meaning "action", which is derived from the verb meaning "to do" or "to act". The enactment of drama in theatre, performed by actors on a stage before an audience, presupposes |2 collaborative modes of production and a |2 collective form of reception. The structure of dramatic texts, unlike other forms of literature, is directly influenced by this collaborative production and collective reception. The early modern tragedy Hamlet by Shakespeare and the classical Athenian tragedy Oedipus the King  by Sophocles are among the masterpieces of the art of drama. A modern example is Long Day's Journey into Night by Eugene O’Neill.
The two masks associated with drama represent the traditional |6 generic division between comedy and tragedy. They are symbols of the ancient Greek Muses, Thalia and Melpomene. Thalia was the Muse of comedy, while Melpomene was the Muse of tragedy.  |6 Thalia’s was portrayed as many things. Considered as a genre of poetry in general, the dramatic mode has been contrasted with the epic and the lyrical modes ever since |2 Aristotle's Poetics —the earliest work of dramatic theory.

Short Story
A short story is a brief work of literature, usually written in |2 narrative prose. Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization. At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters, and focuses on a |2 self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a "single effect" or mood. In doing so, short stories make use of plot, resonance, and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel. While the short story is largely distinct from the novel, authors of both generally draw from a common |4 pool of literary techniques.
Short stories have no set length. In terms of word count there is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel. Rather, the form's parameters are given by the |4 rhetorical and practical context in which a given story is produced and considered, so that what constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators. Like the novel, the short story's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, and the evolution of the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses.

Novella
A novella is a written, fictional, prose narrative normally longer than a short story but shorter than a novel. |5 Novella has a long history. It is often between |4 20,000 and 50,000 words. The English word "novella" derives from the Italian word "novella", feminine of "novello", which means "new". The novella is a common literary genre in several |2 European languages.
A novella generally features |2 fewer conflicts than a novel, yet more complicated ones than a short story. The conflicts also have more time to develop than in short stories. Unlike novels, they are usually not divided into chapters, and are often intended to be read at a single sitting, as the short story, although white space is often used to divide the sections. They maintain, therefore, a single effect. Warren Cariou wrote: The novella is generally not as |2 formally experimental as the long story and the novel can be, and it usually lacks the subplots, the multiple points of view, and the generic adaptability that are common in the novel. It is most often concerned with |4 personal and emotional development rather than with the larger social sphere. The novella generally retains something of the unity of impression that is a hallmark of the short story, but it also contains more highly developed characterization and more luxuriant description

Mythology
A mythology, in the sense of a collection of myths, is an important feature of many cultures. According to Alan Dundes, a myth is a |2 sacred narrative explaining how the world and humankind assumed their present form, although, in a very broad sense, the word can refer to any traditional story. Bruce Lincoln defines myth as "ideology in narrative form". Myths may arise as either truthful depictions or |2 overelaborated accounts of historical events, as allegory for or personification of natural phenomena, or as an explanation of ritual. They are used to convey religious or idealized experience, to establish behavioral models, and to teach. |2 Modern mythopoeia such as fantasy novels, manga, and urban legend, with many competing artificial mythoi acknowledged as fiction, supports the idea of myth as a modern, not just ancient, social practice.
Mythology, in the sense of the study of myths, dates back to antiquity. Early rival classifications of |2 Greek mythos by Euhemerus, Plato's Phaedrus, and Sallustius were developed by the neoplatonists and revived by Renaissance mythographers. Nineteenth-century |2 comparative mythology reinterpreted myth as a primitive and failed counterpart of science , a "disease of language", or a misinterpretation of magical ritual. By contrast, many later interpretations have rejected a conflict between myth and science, sometimes viewing myths as expressions of, or metaphors for, human psychology. Tension between the search for a monomyth or Ur-myth and skepticism toward such comparativism has marked scholarship on myth.
